README.md, before:

# 🔥 Body Fat Percentage Predictor

Predict **Body Fat Percentage** from body measurements with a highly accurate Linear Regression model trained on the [Body Fat Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/body-fat-prediction-dataset).  
This project demonstrates **end to end ML workflow**: data analysis, model training, evaluation, and a simple CLI-based prediction app.

---

## Features
-  **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)** with correlation heatmaps & scatter plots
-  **Linear Regression Model** trained with scikit-learn
- **Interactive CLI app for custom user input predictions**
- **Error Handling** for smooth user experience
---

## Model Performance 
- **R² Score:** 0.99
- **Mean Squared Error:** 0.38  
- **Root Mean Squared Error:** 0.61 

---

## Requirements
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Contents of `requirements.txt`:
```
pandas
matplotlib
seaborn
scikit-learn
joblib
```

---

## How to Run
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AyaanNadeem12/BodyFatPrediction.git
   cd BodyFatPrediction
   ```

2. Install the dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the app:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

> Ensure Python 3.8 or above is installed on your system.

---
## Project Structure

```
bodyfat-predictor/
├── data/
│ └── bodyfat.csv # Dataset
├── notebooks/
│ └── ModelTrain.ipynb # EDA + Training Notebook
├── models/
│ └── bodyfat_model.pkl # Saved Model
├── src/
│ └── app.py # CLI Prediction App
├── requirements.txt
├── README.md
└── .gitignore
```
---
## License


This project is open-source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update README with roadmap for future features
Added a roadmap section outlining future enhancements.

README.md, after:

# 🔥 Body Fat Percentage Predictor

Predict **Body Fat Percentage** from body measurements with a highly accurate Linear Regression model trained on the [Body Fat Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/body-fat-prediction-dataset).  
This project demonstrates **end to end ML workflow**: data analysis, model training, evaluation, and a simple CLI-based prediction app.

---

## Features
-  **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)** with correlation heatmaps & scatter plots
-  **Linear Regression Model** trained with scikit-learn
- **Interactive CLI app for custom user input predictions**
- **Error Handling** for smooth user experience
---

## Model Performance 
- **R² Score:** 0.99
- **Mean Squared Error:** 0.38  
- **Root Mean Squared Error:** 0.61 

---

## Requirements
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Contents of `requirements.txt`:
```
pandas
matplotlib
seaborn
scikit-learn
joblib
```

---

## How to Run
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AyaanNadeem12/BodyFatPrediction.git
   cd BodyFatPrediction
   ```

2. Install the dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the app:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

> Ensure Python 3.8 or above is installed on your system.

---
## Project Structure

```
bodyfat-predictor/
├── data/
│ └── bodyfat.csv # Dataset
├── notebooks/
│ └── ModelTrain.ipynb # EDA + Training Notebook
├── models/
│ └── bodyfat_model.pkl # Saved Model
├── src/
│ └── app.py # CLI Prediction App
├── requirements.txt
├── README.md
└── .gitignore
```
---
## Roadmap  
- [x] Collect and analyze the Body Fat dataset  
- [x] Perform EDA (visualize correlations, trends, and distributions)  
- [x] Train and evaluate a Linear Regression model  
- [x] Save trained model as `.pkl` using Joblib  
- [x] Build a CLI prediction app for quick testing  
- [ ] Add a Streamlit web app for a user-friendly UI  
- [ ] Implement model comparison (Random Forest, XGBoost)  
- [ ] Containerize project with Docker for easy deployment   

---
## License


This project is open-source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
